Concept for Services (#593)
vtex-apps/io-documentation: docs/en/Concepts/services.md

---
title: Services
description: "Services concept"
date: "2020-05-20"
tags: ["services"]
version: "0.x"
git: "https://github.com/vtex-apps/io-documentation/blob/new-docs-1/docs/en/Concepts/services.md"
---

# Services

VTEX IO powers big e-commerce operations, and for most of that it's necessary to **run code on a server**. Services are how we run **Node.js or .NET** code on VTEX IO infrastructure, backed by API abstractions to improve developer experience.

A Service must be exported from a VTEX IO app, just like themes or store blocks, using builders `node` or `dotnet`. With these, it's able to develop a REST API that is setup out of the box, you only need to worry about code.

> On the root folder of a service lives `service.json`, where it´s possible to **declare routes that the service must respond to** and other configurations like *timeout* and *memory*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> VTEX IO powers big e-commerce operations, and for most of that it's necessary to **run code on a server**. Services are how we run **Node.js or .NET** code on VTEX IO infrastructure, backed by API abstractions to improve developer experience.
> 
> A Service must be exported from a VTEX IO app, just like themes or store blocks, using builders `node` or `dotnet`. With these, it's able to develop a REST API that is setup out of the box, you only need to worry about code.
> 
> On the root folder of a service lives `service.json`, where it´s possible to **declare routes that the service must respond to** and other configurations like *timeout* and *memory*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To guarantee big e-commerce operations, VTEX IO uses back-end services to run `Node` or `.NET Core` code on its server infrastructure. Also, to enhance developer experience, we use API abstractions. With these, it's possible to develop a REST API that is setup out of the box, you only need to worry about code. This way, a VTEX IO Service saves you from thinking about how to send your app code to VTEX IO servers.

This is possible using builders - such as `node`, `dotnet`, and `graphql`- to export services from a VTEX IO app. These builders use the information provided by the app's `services.json` file,  which is responsible for not only defining the app routes the service will respond to, but also to other configurations, such as the desired request _timeout_ and _memory_. 
```

> This is the `node/service.json` from [vtex.service-example](https://github.com/vtex-apps/service-example) app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out below the `node/service.json` file from the [vtex.service-example](https://github.com/vtex-apps/service-example) app:
```

```json
{
  "memory": 256,
  "ttl": 10,
  "timeout": 2,
  "minReplicas": 2,
  "maxReplicas": 4,
  "routes": {
    "status": {
      "path": "/_v/status/:code",
      "public": true
    }
  }
}
```

> After that, it´s possible to export resolver functions on `node/index.ts` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
